---
title: 'さくらのVPSで `sudo kusanagi init` すると “Could not parse metalink … error was  No repomd file”エラー'
author: KEINOS
type: post
date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=3688
yuzo_related_post_metabox:
  - 'a:3:{s:17:"yuzo_include_post";s:0:"";s:17:"yuzo_exclude_post";s:0:"";s:21:"yuzo_disabled_related";N;}'
categories:
  - 未分類

---
## `KUSANAGI` を初期化すると「`One of the configured repositories failed`」エラー {#outline__1}

さくらの VPS で KUSANAGI 付きの CentOS7 イメージをインストールしたのですが、`sudo kusanagi init`で [`KUSANAGI` の初期化を行う][1]とエラーが出るようになりました。

「あー `remi` リポジトリを有効化しわすれたかな」と、`yum --enablerepo=remi,remi-php56 update -y` を実行しても同じエラーが発生するようになりました。

    Could not parse metalink https://mirrors.fedoraproject.org/metalink?repo=epel-7&arch=x86_64 error was 
    No repomd file
    
    
     One of the configured repositories failed (Unknown),
     and yum doesn't have enough cached data to continue. At this point the only
     safe thing yum can do is fail. There are a few ways to work "fix" this:
    
         1. Contact the upstream for the repository and get them to fix the problem.
    
         2. Reconfigure the baseurl/etc. for the repository, to point to a working
            upstream. This is most often useful if you are using a newer
            distribution release than is supported by the repository (and the
            packages for the previous distribution release still work).
    
         3. Run the command with the repository temporarily disabled
                yum --disablerepo=<repoid> ...
    
         4. Disable the repository permanently, so yum won't use it by default. Yum
            will then just ignore the repository until you permanently enable it
            again or use --enablerepo for temporary usage:
    
                yum-config-manager --disable <repoid>
            or
                subscription-manager repos --disable=<repoid>
    
         5. Configure the failing repository to be skipped, if it is unavailable.
            Note that yum will try to contact the repo. when it runs most commands,
            so will have to try and fail each time (and thus. yum will be be much
            slower). If it is a very temporary problem though, this is often a nice
            compromise:
    
                yum-config-manager --save --setopt=<repoid>.skip_if_unavailable=true
    
    File /var/cache/yum/x86_64/7/epel/metalink.xml does not exist
    Failed to start postfix.service: Unit not found.
    Do you want to install Mroonga ?: [y/N]y
    /usr/lib/kusanagi/lib/functions.sh: line 674: mysql: command not found
    /usr/lib/kusanagi/lib/functions.sh: line 660: [: =: unary operator expected
    Please upgrade MariaDB. Try running 'kusanagi upgrade mariadb'
    Mroonga installation has failed.
    Failed to get unit file state for mysql.service: No such file or directory
    Failed to get unit file state for mariadb.service: No such file or directory
    innodb_buffer_pool_size = 768M
    query_cache_size = 192M
    sed: no input files
    sed: no input files
    Failed to get unit file state for mariadb.service: No such file or directory
    Failed to execute operation: No such file or directory
    Failed to get unit file state for mysql.service: No such file or directory
    Failed to execute operation: No such file or directory
    Failed to restart mariadb.service: Unit not found.
    Failed to restart mysql.service: Unit not found.
    Can not Start MariaDB!
    monit is already on. Nothing to do.
    
    KUSANAGI initialization completed
    Done.
    

    # yum clean all
    Loaded plugins: fastestmirror, langpacks
    Cleaning repos: base epel extras kusanagi mariadb mondorescue updates zabbix
                  : zabbix-non-supported
    Cleaning up everything
    Maybe you want: rm -rf /var/cache/yum, to also free up space taken by orphaned data from disabled or removed repos
    

https://qiita.com/inductor/items/a3031447dbb5c4646788

 [1]: https://kusanagi.tokyo/document/kusanagi-init/